temperature range. The PCA pump should be able to operate within a temperature range of Tlo =10C to Thi =50C^^Functional Safety Architecture The functional safety architecture separates operation from error/fault detection  with a few exceptions. This allows safety requirements to be more easily achieved and verified. Components comprising the functional safety architecture are: Upstream Monitor Downstream Monitor Pump Fault Manager Alarm Thread  Error Detector Fault Logger  Failure LED  Power Control^^0
inactive auditory alarm symbol. When auditory alarms are inactive the control panel shall display an inactive auditory alarm symbol from Table D.201 Graphical symbols for ALARM SYSTEMS of standard IEC 60601-1-8.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
pump drug. The mechanical pump shall pump drug at precribed flow rates for basal  bolus  and KVO infusion when commanded.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
clinician bolus request. The control panel shall allow authorized clinician bolus request and choice of duration.. clinician authentication. Required when changing prescription during infusion . patient authenticaion. Required when changing prescription during infusion. prescription authentication. Required when changing prescription during infusion (patient-to-drug match). control panel. The control panel must display currently-programmed patient data and physician's prescription.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^0
low-reservoir warning. If the drug volume in the reservoir measures less than Vlra = 1 ml  and an infusion is in progress  a low-reservoir warning shall be issued.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
basal over-infusion alarm. IF delivered basal flow rate exceeds the prescribed basal rate setting by more than its allowered tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the pump goes into free flow  the pump shall issue a basal-overinfusion alarm. (EC3.2.7)^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^1
prescription confirmation. Required when changing prescription during infusion^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^0
safety architecture. The PCA pump shall implement a safety architecture that separates normal operation from fault detection and response.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^0
real-time clock. A real-time clock must produce timestamps accurate to 10 ms.^^Fluid Subsystem The fluid subsystem moves drug from the reservoir to the line to the patient and is depicted in Figure 9. The drug flows from the reservoir  through the upstream monitor to the pump  then through the downstream monitor to the tube to the patient.^^0
hard limit. If a drug library's hard limit is violated by the proposed settings  the limit violated is indicated by the user interface  and recorded in the Fault Log. Pump remains stopped.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
patient's wristband. The scanner shall read and authenticate information from the patient's wristband.^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^1
prescription confirmation. An authorized clinician must personally confirm the prescription is authentic and meant for the patient to be infused. The routine procedures by which clinicians load the drug reservoir must ensure that the prescription  lled by an authorized pharmacist at the hospital pharmacy is meant for the patient (to be) connected to the PCA pump.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
alarm indicator appearance. The alarm indicator appearance shall comply with color  flashing frequency  and duty cycle given in Table 5.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
detect downstream occlusion. The PCA pump shall detect downstream occlusion^^Fluid Subsystem: Upstream Monitor The upstream monitor measures drug flow into the pump and detects upstream occlusion.^^1
alert-stop-start sequence. If the same alert-stop-start sequence occurs 3 or more times in ten minutes  infusion will be stopped  and an audible alarm sounded.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^0
empty-reservoir alarm. When an empty-reservoir alarm occurs  the current pump stroke shall be completed prior to stopping the pump.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
battery backup. The PCA pump shall continue to infuse for 10 minutes during interruption of mains electricity supply using battery backup  either continuously or spread over an hour. (Five minutes to recharge per minute using battery.)^^Fluid Subsystem: Upstream Monitor The upstream monitor measures drug flow into the pump and detects upstream occlusion.^^0
low-reservoir warning. If the drug volume in the reservoir measures less than Vlra = 1 ml  and an infusion is in progress  a low-reservoir warning shall be issued.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^0
auditory volume. The auditory volume of audible alarms  signals shall conform to Selction 201.3.3.2^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^0
stop silences alarms. Pressing the stop button confirms and silences all alarms and terminates any alarm signal inactivation.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
time stamp. Each log entry shall have a time stamp with its time of occurrence.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^0
pump overheated alarm. If the pump gets overheated to more than Tpoh = 55 C  the pump shall issue a pump overloaded alarm^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^1
alert-stop-start sequence. If the same alert-stop-start sequence occurs 3 or more times in ten minutes  infusion will be stopped  and an audible alarm sounded.^^Operational Subsystem: Event Logger Thread The event logger thread records all actions or events for later review or audit.^^0
clinician-requested bolus. A clinician-requested bolus shall be delivered at the rate Fccb  of VTBI divided by the duration chosen by the clinician  ∆ccb  in addition to the prescribed basal flow rate  Fbasal  but no more than the maximum flow rate for the pump  Fmax.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^0
inactivate audible alarms temporarily. The Control Panel shall provide the means to inactivate audible alarms temporarily for a predefined period of time.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
device parameters. The PCA pump shall use a physician's prescriptions as device parameters^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^1
pump overheated alarm. If the pump gets overheated to more than Tpoh = 55 C  the pump shall issue a pump overloaded alarm^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
tamper-resistant door. Because the drugs used for analgesia are often narcotic  requiring Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) tracking if used in the United States  the drug reservoir and means to change prescriptions during infusion must be inhibited with a locked  tamper-resistant door.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
minimum KVO flow rate. The pump shall maintain a minimum KVO flow rate of FKVO  = 1/ml at all times during infusion  even during alarms  unless the alarm also stops flow.  Table 4 defines which alarms also stop drug flow completely.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
soft limit confirmation. Prescriptions that violate the soft limits of the drug in the drug library shall issue a visible and audible warning requiring a soft limit confirmation by the clinician.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^0
prescription confirmation. An authorized clinician must personally confirm the prescription is authentic and meant for the patient to be infused. The routine procedures by which clinicians load the drug reservoir must ensure that the prescription  lled by an authorized pharmacist at the hospital pharmacy is meant for the patient (to be) connected to the PCA pump.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
visual alarm signal. If a visual indicator is necessary for the clinicaian to identify the equipment or part of the equipment that requires clinician response or awareness  at least one visual alarm signal shall be provided that  1. indicated the priority of the highest priority alarm condition; and 2. can be perceived correctly at a distance of 4 m from the PCA pump.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
max dose warning. Clinician commanded bolus shall be halted when continuinh to infuse prescribed VTBI will exceed hard limits retrieved from the drug library for the volume of drug infused over a period of time. Pump rate shall be reduced to KVO and a max dose warning be issued.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
basal under-infusion warning. If  delivered basal flow rate is less than the prescribed basal rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the flow stops  the pump shall issue a basal under-infusion warning. (EC3.2.8)^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^1
remaining battery accuracy. The estimate of remaining battery energy must be accurate to within Xbtty = 25%.^^Fluid Subsystem The fluid subsystem moves drug from the reservoir to the line to the patient and is depicted in Figure 9. The drug flows from the reservoir  through the upstream monitor to the pump  then through the downstream monitor to the tube to the patient.^^0
fault log size. The fault log shall record at least 1000 faults before overwriting oldest fault records first^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^0
remaining battery accuracy. The estimate of remaining battery energy must be accurate to within Xbtty = 25%.^^Fluid Subsystem: Patient Button The patient button allows the patient to request an extra bolus of drug on demand. It may be connected by wire or RF to the PCA pump so that it is conveniently located for the patient.^^0
start button. The PCA pump shall have a start button.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
occlusion alarm. When an occlusion alarm occurs  the pump shall be stopped immediately without completing the current pump stroke.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
masked faults. Successfully masked faults shall be recorded in the Fault Log  but raise an alarm.^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^0
sound alarm. The Control Panel shall audibly indicate the specific problem causing the alarm condition as described in Section 5.4.3.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
hard limit. If a drug library's hard limit is violated by the proposed settings  the limit violated is indicated by the user interface  and recorded in the Fault Log. Pump remains stopped.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
continuous fault-detection. The PCA pump shall have continuous fault-detection and masking. Hardware monitors of thread heartbeat  memory error correction codes are examples.^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^0
reservoir contents. The drug reservoir shall measure its contents.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
complete pump stroke. When the stop button is pressed  the current pump stroke shall be completed prior to stopping the pump.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
reservoir contents. The drug reservoir shall measure its contents.^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^0
basal under-infusion warning. If  delivered basal flow rate is less than the prescribed basal rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the flow stops  the pump shall issue a basal under-infusion warning. (EC3.2.8)^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
hard limit. If a drug library's hard limit is violated by the proposed settings  the limit violated is indicated by the user interface  and recorded in the Fault Log. Pump remains stopped.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^0
basal under-infusion warning. If  delivered basal flow rate is less than the prescribed basal rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the flow stops  the pump shall issue a basal under-infusion warning. (EC3.2.8)^^Power Subsystem: Battery Provides reserve energy to operate the PCA Pump when mains power fails.^^0
reservoir tolerance. The measured drug volume shall be within Vrt = 1 ml of the actual drug volume.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^0
drug library entry. For each drug that may be infused with a PCA pump  the drug library entry for that drug shall have data elements listed in Table 6.^^Safety Subsystem The safety subsystem works with  but is distinct from  the operation subsystem. The safety subsystem detects faults that may harm the patient  signals an alarm or warning  and stop infusion or reduces infusion to a keep vein open rate depending on the fault(s) detected. The components in the safety system are listed in Table 10  and depicted in Figure 10.^^0
continuous fault-detection. The PCA pump shall have continuous fault-detection and masking. Hardware monitors of thread heartbeat  memory error correction codes are examples.^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^0
prescription retention. The patient's prescription shall be retained for at least ∆data= 96 hours after the PCA pump is turned-off and unplugged.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^0
priority. Alarm's and warning's priority shall be determined in accordance with standard IEC 60601-1-8 Medical electrical equipment- Part 1-8: General requirements for safety - Collateral standard: Alarm systems- General requirements tests and guidance for alarm systems in medical electrical equipment and medical electrical systems.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
enter prescription. Prior to  or coincident with  loading the drug reservoir must also enter prescription on the drug container's label using the scanner.^^Fluid Subsystem: Patient Button The patient button allows the patient to request an extra bolus of drug on demand. It may be connected by wire or RF to the PCA pump so that it is conveniently located for the patient.^^0
hard limit. Prescriptions that violate a hard limit of the drug in the drug library shall be rejected with visible and audible indication when con rmation is attempted by the clinician.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
device parameters. The PCA pump shall use a physician's prescriptions as device parameters^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^0
drug library authentication. Drug library information shall be authenticated before it is accepted.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^1
prescription retention. The patient's prescription shall be retained for at least ∆data= 96 hours after the PCA pump is turned-off and unplugged.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
alarm melody. The alarm melody of audible alarms signals shall conform to Table AAA.1 of standard IEC 60601-1-8 for drug or fluid delivery. \C d g" shall be used for medium priority alarms; \C d g - C d" shall be used for high priority alarms; \e c" shall be used for warnings and low priority alarms.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
occlusion alarm. When an occlusion alarm occurs  the pump shall be stopped immediately without completing the current pump stroke.^^Functional Safety Architecture The functional safety architecture separates operation from error/fault detection  with a few exceptions. This allows safety requirements to be more easily achieved and verified. Components comprising the functional safety architecture are: Upstream Monitor Downstream Monitor Pump Fault Manager Alarm Thread  Error Detector Fault Logger  Failure LED  Power Control^^0
bolus under-infusion warning. If patient-requested bolus is less than the prescribed bolus rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 1 minute  or immediately if the flow stops  the pump shall issue a bolus under-infusion warning. (EC3.2.8)^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
alarm pump rate. Priority for alarms and warnings is shown in Table 4; warnings are low-priority alarms. The last column show the alarm pump rate to be used while the alarm is in effect. For "special" flow rates for power malfunctions see Section 6.3.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
hardware fault indicator. Hardware faults that prevent operation of the Control Panel shall illuminate a hardware fault indicator (light-emitting diode).^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^0
continuous fault-detection. The PCA pump shall have continuous fault-detection and masking. Hardware monitors of thread heartbeat  memory error correction codes are examples.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^1
detect downstream occlusion. The PCA pump shall detect downstream occlusion^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^0
soft limit confirmation. Prescriptions that violate the soft limits of the drug in the drug library shall issue a visible and audible warning requiring a soft limit confirmation by the clinician.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^0
drug's package label. The scanner shall read and authenticate information from the drug's package label^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^1
bolus over-infusion alarm. If delivered patient-requested bolus flow rate exceeds the prescribed patient-requested bolus rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 1 minute or immediately if the pump goes into free flow  the pump shall issue a bolus over-infusion alarm. (EC 3.2.7).^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
complete pump stroke. When the stop button is pressed  the current pump stroke shall be completed prior to stopping the pump.^^Power Subsystem: Battery Provides reserve energy to operate the PCA Pump when mains power fails.^^0
display of visual information. The Control Panel confirms operation during power-on self-test^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^0
basal over-infusion alarm. IF delivered basal flow rate exceeds the prescribed basal rate setting by more than its allowered tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the pump goes into free flow  the pump shall issue a basal-overinfusion alarm. (EC3.2.7)^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
audible alarms signals. Alarms shall cause audible alarms signals  that meet the requirements of Tables 203 and 204 of standard IEC 60601-1-8 for alarm pulses  bursts  and harmonics.^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^0
unknown drug. If the drug loaded into the drug reservoir is not present in the drug library or the library does not pass authentication and integrity checks  that the drug is unknown or drug library error has occurred is indicated by the user interface  and recorded in the Fault Log. Pump remains stopped.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
alert-stop-start sequence. If the same alert-stop-start sequence occurs 3 or more times in ten minutes  infusion will be stopped  and an audible alarm sounded.^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^0
square bolus over-infusion alarm. If delivered clinician-requested bolus flow rate exceeds the calculated square bolus rate by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the pump goes into free flow  the pump shall issue a square bolus over-infusion alarm. (EC3.2.7)^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
ICE alarms. The ICE interface shall transmit encrypted and authenticated alarms and warnings to the ICE system.^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^0
see alarm signal. At least one visual alarm signal shall be provided that identifies the specific alarm condition and its priority.  This signal shall be perceived correctly (be legible) at a distance of 1m from the equipment or part of the equipment or from the clinician's position.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
issue alarms and warnings. The PCA pump shall issue alarms and warnings that require clinician attention^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
electronic tamper detection mechanisms. The PCA pump shall include electronic tamper detection mechanisms and shall record detected tampering attempts in the Fault Log and Event Log as well as issuing an authenticated ICE message.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
low-battery warning. If the estimated battery life remaining is less than ∆lba = 3 minutes  the pump shall issue a low-battery warning.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^0
upstream occlusion alarm. An upstream occlusion alarm shall be triggered when the pump senses an upstream (drug reservoir side) occlusion exceeding Puo = 1 psi.^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^0
auditory volume. The auditory volume of audible alarms  signals shall conform to Selction 201.3.3.2^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
harmonic components. Each tone in the alarm melody shall be composed of a minimum of 4 harmonic components in the range 300 Hz to 4000 Hz comprising an inverted 9th jazz chord.^^Fluid Subsystem The fluid subsystem moves drug from the reservoir to the line to the patient and is depicted in Figure 9. The drug flows from the reservoir  through the upstream monitor to the pump  then through the downstream monitor to the tube to the patient.^^0
drug library. The drug library can be thought of as a lookup table that  given a drug name and a location  provides typical and safe limits of di erent infusion parameters. The drug library shall be determined by an authorized and authenticated hospital pharmacist  and loaded into the PCA pump via its communication port after verifying its authenticity and integrity.^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^1
start button. The PCA pump shall have a start button.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^0
fault log. The PCA pump shall maintain an electronic fault log to record each fault condition  and the associated alarm and/or alert issued.^^Safety Subsystem: Fault Logger The fault logger records all errors that are detected. As such it is pure hardware that does not depend on thread execution. It also maintains a hardware real-time clock used for timestamps by^^1
halt pumping. The mechanical pump shall halt pumping when commanded  or caused in response to an alarm condition (at end of pump stoke?)^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
hard limit. Prescriptions that violate a hard limit of the drug in the drug library shall be rejected with visible and audible indication when con rmation is attempted by the clinician.^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^1
occlusion alarm. When an occlusion alarm occurs  the pump shall be stopped immediately without completing the current pump stroke.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
soft limit . If a drug library's soft limit is violated by the proposed settings  but not a hard limit  a warning is shown to the clinician by the user interface and a distinctive  irritating sound made and recorded in the Event Log. If the clinician again confirms proposed settings  then pump operation shall commence using them  otherwise typical values from the Drug Library.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
open door alarm. A open door alarm shall be triggered when the reservoir door is opened while the pump is not stopped.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
soft limit . If a drug library's soft limit is violated by the proposed settings  but not a hard limit  a warning is shown to the clinician by the user interface and a distinctive  irritating sound made and recorded in the Event Log. If the clinician again confirms proposed settings  then pump operation shall commence using them  otherwise typical values from the Drug Library.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
enter prescription. Prior to  or coincident with  loading the drug reservoir must also enter prescription on the drug container's label using the scanner.^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^0
soft limit confirmation. Prescriptions that violate the soft limits of the drug in the drug library shall issue a visible and audible warning requiring a soft limit confirmation by the clinician.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
enter prescription. Prior to  or coincident with  loading the drug reservoir must also enter prescription on the drug container's label using the scanner.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^0
low-battery warning. If the estimated battery life remaining is less than ∆lba = 3 minutes  the pump shall issue a low-battery warning.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^1
pump overheated alarm. If the pump gets overheated to more than Tpoh = 55 C  the pump shall issue a pump overloaded alarm^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
relative humidity. The (external) pump should be able to operate at relative humidity ranging from Hmin = 0% to Hmax =100% (non-condensing)^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^0
stop button. The PCA pump shall have a stop button.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
bolus over-infusion alarm. If delivered patient-requested bolus flow rate exceeds the prescribed patient-requested bolus rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 1 minute or immediately if the pump goes into free flow  the pump shall issue a bolus over-infusion alarm. (EC 3.2.7).^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^0
ICE alarms. The ICE interface shall transmit encrypted and authenticated alarms and warnings to the ICE system.^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^1
temperature range. The PCA pump should be able to operate within a temperature range of Tlo =10C to Thi =50C^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^0
soft limit . If a drug library's soft limit is violated by the proposed settings  but not a hard limit  a warning is shown to the clinician by the user interface and a distinctive  irritating sound made and recorded in the Event Log. If the clinician again confirms proposed settings  then pump operation shall commence using them  otherwise typical values from the Drug Library.^^Fluid Subsystem: Upstream Monitor The upstream monitor measures drug flow into the pump and detects upstream occlusion.^^0
unknown drug. If the drug loaded into the drug reservoir is not present in the drug library or the library does not pass authentication and integrity checks  that the drug is unknown or drug library error has occurred is indicated by the user interface  and recorded in the Fault Log. Pump remains stopped.^^Functional Safety Architecture The functional safety architecture separates operation from error/fault detection  with a few exceptions. This allows safety requirements to be more easily achieved and verified. Components comprising the functional safety architecture are: Upstream Monitor Downstream Monitor Pump Fault Manager Alarm Thread  Error Detector Fault Logger  Failure LED  Power Control^^0
bolus under-infusion warning. If patient-requested bolus is less than the prescribed bolus rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 1 minute  or immediately if the flow stops  the pump shall issue a bolus under-infusion warning. (EC3.2.8)^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^0
show alarm. The Control Panel shall visually indicate the specific problem causing the alarm condition as described in Section 5.4.2.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
hardware fault indicator. Hardware faults that prevent operation of the Control Panel shall illuminate a hardware fault indicator (light-emitting diode).^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^0
basal infusion flow range. The pump shall be able to deliver basal infusion at flows throughout the basal infusion flow range of Fbasal min = 1 to Fbasal max = 10 ml/hr^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
device parameters. The PCA pump shall use a physician's prescriptions as device parameters^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
cleaned and disinfected. The PCA pump shall be cleaned and disinfected after use.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^0
square bolus under-infusion warning. If delivered clinician-requested bolus flow rate is less than the calculated square bolus rate by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the flow stops  the pump shall issue a square bolus under-infusion warning. (EC3.2.8)^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^1
log retention. Information in event and Fault Logs shall be retained for at least ∆log= 1000 hours after the PCA pump is turned-off  and unplugged.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^0
low-battery warning. If the estimated battery life remaining is less than ∆lba = 3 minutes  the pump shall issue a low-battery warning.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^0
device parameters. The PCA pump shall use a physician's prescriptions as device parameters^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^0
air-in-line alarm. An air-in-line alarm shall be triggered by the pump if detectable air bubbles are infused into the patient.^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^0
soft limit . If a drug library's soft limit is violated by the proposed settings  but not a hard limit  a warning is shown to the clinician by the user interface and a distinctive  irritating sound made and recorded in the Event Log. If the clinician again confirms proposed settings  then pump operation shall commence using them  otherwise typical values from the Drug Library.^^Operational Subsystem: Event Logger Thread The event logger thread records all actions or events for later review or audit.^^0
reverse flow. The mechanical pump shall not allow reverse flow from the patient into the pump.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
display of visual information. The Control Panel confirms operation during power-on self-test^^Safety Subsystem: Failure LED Hardware faults that prevent execution of thread cause the failure LED to illuminate.^^0
drug reservoir. The drug reservoir holds liquid pain-killer supplied by the hospital pharmacy and loaded into the PCA pump by the clinician.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
remaining battery accuracy. The estimate of remaining battery energy must be accurate to within Xbtty = 25%.^^Functional Safety Architecture The functional safety architecture separates operation from error/fault detection  with a few exceptions. This allows safety requirements to be more easily achieved and verified. Components comprising the functional safety architecture are: Upstream Monitor Downstream Monitor Pump Fault Manager Alarm Thread  Error Detector Fault Logger  Failure LED  Power Control^^0
battery failure alarm. The PCA pump shall detect battery failure and issue a battery failure alarm.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^1
drug in library. The drug loaded into the reservoir must also be found in the PCA pump's drug in library. The drug code of the prescription must match the drug code of a drug library entry. The drug library must pass authenticity and integrity checks.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
tamper-resistant door. Because the drugs used for analgesia are often narcotic  requiring Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) tracking if used in the United States  the drug reservoir and means to change prescriptions during infusion must be inhibited with a locked  tamper-resistant door.^^Fluid Subsystem: Patient Button The patient button allows the patient to request an extra bolus of drug on demand. It may be connected by wire or RF to the PCA pump so that it is conveniently located for the patient.^^0
occlusion alarm. When an occlusion alarm occurs  the pump shall be stopped immediately without completing the current pump stroke.^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^0
reservoir tolerance. The measured drug volume shall be within Vrt = 1 ml of the actual drug volume.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^0
enter prescription. Prior to  or coincident with  loading the drug reservoir must also enter prescription on the drug container's label using the scanner.^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^1
reservoir tolerance. The measured drug volume shall be within Vrt = 1 ml of the actual drug volume.^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^0
low-battery warning. If the estimated battery life remaining is less than ∆lba = 3 minutes  the pump shall issue a low-battery warning.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^0
patient authentication. Patient's identity and admittance to the hospital must be authenticated.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^1
continuous reverse delivery. During normal use and/or single fault condition of the equipment  continuous reverse delivery shall not be possible (from IEC 601-2-24).^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^1
power and battery failure. Because with either working battery or power supply can operate the pump  if the battery failure alarm and either the voltage out-o-range or the power supply failure alarms  the the pump rate will be off  otherwise the pump rate will continue at its previous value.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^1
detect air-in-line embolism. The PCA pump shall detect air-in-line embolism^^Fluid Subsystem: Upstream Monitor The upstream monitor measures drug flow into the pump and detects upstream occlusion.^^1
upstream occlusion alarm. An upstream occlusion alarm shall be triggered when the pump senses an upstream (drug reservoir side) occlusion exceeding Puo = 1 psi.^^Fluid Subsystem The fluid subsystem moves drug from the reservoir to the line to the patient and is depicted in Figure 9. The drug flows from the reservoir  through the upstream monitor to the pump  then through the downstream monitor to the tube to the patient.^^0
pump case. The PCA pump case must be at least difficult to breech as its tamper-resistant door. Breaking the case shall not be easier to access the drug reservoir than breeching the door.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
stop infusion. Upon the clinician's pressing of the stop button  prescribed infusion shall halt^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
auditory volume. The auditory volume of audible alarms  signals shall conform to Selction 201.3.3.2^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^0
prescription confirmation. An authorized clinician must personally confirm the prescription is authentic and meant for the patient to be infused. The routine procedures by which clinicians load the drug reservoir must ensure that the prescription  lled by an authorized pharmacist at the hospital pharmacy is meant for the patient (to be) connected to the PCA pump.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^0
real-time clock. A real-time clock must produce timestamps accurate to 10 ms.^^Safety Subsystem: Fault Logger The fault logger records all errors that are detected. As such it is pure hardware that does not depend on thread execution. It also maintains a hardware real-time clock used for timestamps by^^1
air-in-line alarm. An air-in-line alarm shall be triggered by the pump if detectable air bubbles are infused into the patient.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
sound of audible alarm. The Control Panel confirms operation during power-on self-test^^Safety Subsystem The safety subsystem works with  but is distinct from  the operation subsystem. The safety subsystem detects faults that may harm the patient  signals an alarm or warning  and stop infusion or reduces infusion to a keep vein open rate depending on the fault(s) detected. The components in the safety system are listed in Table 10  and depicted in Figure 10.^^0
enter prescription. Prior to  or coincident with  loading the drug reservoir must also enter prescription on the drug container's label using the scanner.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^0
square bolus over-infusion alarm. If delivered clinician-requested bolus flow rate exceeds the calculated square bolus rate by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 5 minutes  or immediately if the pump goes into free flow  the pump shall issue a square bolus over-infusion alarm. (EC3.2.7)^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^1
drug library checking. After the clinician presses the start button  but before commencing infusion  the values of VTBI and Fbasal are checked against the drug library entry of the drug to be infused^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
log retention. Information in event and Fault Logs shall be retained for at least ∆log= 1000 hours after the PCA pump is turned-off  and unplugged.^^Safety Subsystem: Fault Logger The fault logger records all errors that are detected. As such it is pure hardware that does not depend on thread execution. It also maintains a hardware real-time clock used for timestamps by^^1
clinician bolus request. The control panel shall allow authorized clinician bolus request and choice of duration.. clinician authentication. Required when changing prescription during infusion . patient authenticaion. Required when changing prescription during infusion. prescription authentication. Required when changing prescription during infusion (patient-to-drug match). control panel. The control panel must display currently-programmed patient data and physician's prescription.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
cancel alarm signal inactivation. The Control Panel shall provide means to cancel alarm signal inactivation^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
open door alarm. A open door alarm shall be triggered when the reservoir door is opened while the pump is not stopped.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^0
battery backup. The PCA pump shall continue to infuse for 10 minutes during interruption of mains electricity supply using battery backup  either continuously or spread over an hour. (Five minutes to recharge per minute using battery.)^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^0
clinician authentication. Clinicians authorization to operate the PCA pump must be authenticated.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^1
inactivate audible alarms indefinitely. The Control Panel shal provide means to inactivate audible alarms indefinitely.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
drug library. The drug library can be thought of as a lookup table that  given a drug name and a location  provides typical and safe limits of di erent infusion parameters. The drug library shall be determined by an authorized and authenticated hospital pharmacist  and loaded into the PCA pump via its communication port after verifying its authenticity and integrity.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^0
biocompatible. All materials that contact fluid shall be biocompatible.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^0
hard limit. If a drug library's hard limit is violated by the proposed settings  the limit violated is indicated by the user interface  and recorded in the Fault Log. Pump remains stopped.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
ICE operating status. The ICE Interface shall transmit encrypted and authenticated current operating status to the ICE system.^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^1
door key. Hospital procedures must endow the attending clinician access to the door key  yet prevent other persons' access. Key-handling processes are beyond the scope of these requirements  but much depends on the attending clinician: it's the right drug  in the right patient  with the right prescription from a physician authorized to prescribe narcotics for those suffering great pain. If the key is electronic  some of this information may be automatically verified and authenticated.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^0
occlusion alarm. When an occlusion alarm occurs  the pump shall be stopped immediately without completing the current pump stroke.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
remaining battery minutes. The user interface must show that the PCA pump is working on battery backup  and an estimate of the number of minutes of battery-powered infusion remain.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^1
continuous reverse delivery. During normal use and/or single fault condition of the equipment  continuous reverse delivery shall not be possible (from IEC 601-2-24).^^Operational Subsystem: Event Logger Thread The event logger thread records all actions or events for later review or audit.^^0
downstream occlusion alarm. A downstream occlusion alarm shall be triggered if the pump senses a downstream (patient side) occlusion exceeding Pdo = 10 psi.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^0
electronic tamper detection mechanisms. The PCA pump shall include electronic tamper detection mechanisms and shall record detected tampering attempts in the Fault Log and Event Log as well as issuing an authenticated ICE message.^^Fluid Subsystem: Upstream Monitor The upstream monitor measures drug flow into the pump and detects upstream occlusion.^^0
relative humidity. The (external) pump should be able to operate at relative humidity ranging from Hmin = 0% to Hmax =100% (non-condensing)^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^0
downstream occlusion alarm. A downstream occlusion alarm shall be triggered if the pump senses a downstream (patient side) occlusion exceeding Pdo = 10 psi.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
ICE resume infusion. The PCA pump shall resume prescribed infusion upon receiving an authenticated command through its ICE interface.^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^1
minimum KVO flow rate. The pump shall maintain a minimum KVO flow rate of FKVO  = 1/ml at all times during infusion  even during alarms  unless the alarm also stops flow.  Table 4 defines which alarms also stop drug flow completely.^^Fluid Subsystem: Pump The pump moves fluid at specified rate  primes itself  announces if priming fails  indicates when it's too hot  and halts pumping when commanded.^^0
alarm symbols. Visual alarm shall display alarm symbols  from Table D.201 Graphical symbols for ALARM SYSTEMS of standard IEC 60601-1-8.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
confidentiality. Patient information must be restricted to those providing care for the patient  and the patient.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^1
single-event upsets. Occurrence of unavoidable single-event upsets caused by cosmic-ray-induced high- and thermal-energy neutrons must be either masked  or detected to fail-stop.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^1
soft limit confirmation. Prescriptions that violate the soft limits of the drug in the drug library shall issue a visible and audible warning requiring a soft limit confirmation by the clinician.^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^0
temperature range. The PCA pump should be able to operate within a temperature range of Tlo =10C to Thi =50C^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^0
audible alarms signals. Alarms shall cause audible alarms signals  that meet the requirements of Tables 203 and 204 of standard IEC 60601-1-8 for alarm pulses  bursts  and harmonics.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
event log. The PCA pump shall maintain an electronic event log to record each action taken by the pump and each event sensed of its environment.^^Functional Safety Architecture The functional safety architecture separates operation from error/fault detection  with a few exceptions. This allows safety requirements to be more easily achieved and verified. Components comprising the functional safety architecture are: Upstream Monitor Downstream Monitor Pump Fault Manager Alarm Thread  Error Detector Fault Logger  Failure LED  Power Control^^0
drug library entry. For each drug that may be infused with a PCA pump  the drug library entry for that drug shall have data elements listed in Table 6.^^Operational Subsystem: Drug Library Thread The drug library thread stores the drug library provided by the hospital pharmacy  and retrieves the drug record corresponding to the drug loaded into the reservoir.^^1
harmonic components. Each tone in the alarm melody shall be composed of a minimum of 4 harmonic components in the range 300 Hz to 4000 Hz comprising an inverted 9th jazz chord.^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
basal flow rate. The basal flow rate  Fbasal  is prescribed by a physician  and entered into the PCA pump by scanning the prescription from the drug container label as it is loaded into the reservoir^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
hard limit. If a drug library's hard limit is violated by the proposed settings  the limit violated is indicated by the user interface  and recorded in the Fault Log. Pump remains stopped.^^Functional Safety Architecture The functional safety architecture separates operation from error/fault detection  with a few exceptions. This allows safety requirements to be more easily achieved and verified. Components comprising the functional safety architecture are: Upstream Monitor Downstream Monitor Pump Fault Manager Alarm Thread  Error Detector Fault Logger  Failure LED  Power Control^^0
patient-requested bolus. A patient-requested bolus shall be delivered at its prescribed rate  Fbolus  in addition to the prescribed basal flow rate Fbasal  but no more than the maximim flow rate for the pump  Fmax.^^Fluid Subsystem: Patient Button The patient button allows the patient to request an extra bolus of drug on demand. It may be connected by wire or RF to the PCA pump so that it is conveniently located for the patient.^^1
event log. The PCA pump shall maintain an electronic event log to record each action taken by the pump and each event sensed of its environment.^^Operational Subsystem: Event Logger Thread The event logger thread records all actions or events for later review or audit.^^1
start infusion. Upon the clinician's pressing of the start button  prescribed infusion shall commence^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
low-battery warning. If the estimated battery life remaining is less than ∆lba = 3 minutes  the pump shall issue a low-battery warning.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^0
time stamp. Each log entry shall have a time stamp with its time of occurrence.^^Safety Subsystem: Fault Logger The fault logger records all errors that are detected. As such it is pure hardware that does not depend on thread execution. It also maintains a hardware real-time clock used for timestamps by^^1
soft limit confirmation. Prescriptions that violate the soft limits of the drug in the drug library shall issue a visible and audible warning requiring a soft limit confirmation by the clinician.^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
ICE bolus duration. The ICE interface shall allow an authorized clinician to set the duration of clinician-requested boluses through an ICE supervisor user interface.^^ICE Bus Adaptor translates events and data into bus transactions^^1
bolus over-infusion alarm. If delivered patient-requested bolus flow rate exceeds the prescribed patient-requested bolus rate setting by more than its allowed tolerance over a period of more than 1 minute or immediately if the pump goes into free flow  the pump shall issue a bolus over-infusion alarm. (EC 3.2.7).^^Safety Subsystem: Pump Fault Manager The pump fault manager determines if the measured upstream and downstream flow rates are within tolerance of the speci ed rate  and aggregates other pump fault indications into a combined pump fault indication.^^1
masked faults. Successfully masked faults shall be recorded in the Fault Log  but raise an alarm.^^Safety Subsystem: Fault Logger The fault logger records all errors that are detected. As such it is pure hardware that does not depend on thread execution. It also maintains a hardware real-time clock used for timestamps by^^1
prescription authentication. Drug container must have a valid prescription  filled by an authorized pharmacist  for the particular patient to be infused by the PCA pump.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^1
harmonic components. Each tone in the alarm melody shall be composed of a minimum of 4 harmonic components in the range 300 Hz to 4000 Hz comprising an inverted 9th jazz chord.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^0
unmasked faults. Hardware faults detected  but not masked  shall raise a fault alarm  stop pump  record it in the Fault Log  and display the reason for fault on the user interface.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^1
masked faults. Successfully masked faults shall be recorded in the Fault Log  but raise an alarm.^^Security Subsystem The security subsystem performs authentication calculations of patient wrist bands  clinician badges  prescription labels  drug libraries  and messages with ICE. It will also encrypt patient data to be sent to an electronic health record system. Within the security subsystem  a crypto process holds a crypto thread which controls a trusted platform module (TPM). A personal presence button must be pressed by a person for certain TPM initializations.^^0
patient authentication. Patient's identity and admittance to the hospital must be authenticated.^^Fluid Subsystem: Patient Button The patient button allows the patient to request an extra bolus of drug on demand. It may be connected by wire or RF to the PCA pump so that it is conveniently located for the patient.^^0
empty-reservoir alarm. If the drug volume in the reservoir measures less than Vers =0.5 ml  and an infusion is in progress  an empty-reservoir alarm shall be issued stopping the pump.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
reservoir contents. The drug reservoir shall measure its contents.^^Power Subsystem: Battery Provides reserve energy to operate the PCA Pump when mains power fails.^^0
safety architecture. The PCA pump shall implement a safety architecture that separates normal operation from fault detection and response.^^Functional Safety Architecture The functional safety architecture separates operation from error/fault detection  with a few exceptions. This allows safety requirements to be more easily achieved and verified. Components comprising the functional safety architecture are: Upstream Monitor Downstream Monitor Pump Fault Manager Alarm Thread  Error Detector Fault Logger  Failure LED  Power Control^^1
enter prescription. Prior to  or coincident with  loading the drug reservoir must also enter prescription on the drug container's label using the scanner.^^Fluid Subsystem: Upstream Monitor The upstream monitor measures drug flow into the pump and detects upstream occlusion.^^0
reservoir tolerance. The measured drug volume shall be within Vrt = 1 ml of the actual drug volume.^^Fluid Subsystem: Drug Reservoir The drug reservoir holds liquid drug until infused.^^1
pump drug. The mechanical pump shall pump drug at precribed flow rates for basal  bolus  and KVO infusion when commanded.^^Safety Subsystem: Error Detector The error detector detects conditions that prevent threads from operating thus could not be detected by the alarm thread^^0
remaining battery accuracy. The estimate of remaining battery energy must be accurate to within Xbtty = 25%.^^Power Subsystem:Power Control Switches between battery-backup and mains supply  and detects anomalies like voltage out-of-range.^^1
prescription confirmation. Required when changing prescription during infusion^^Operation Subsystem: Control Panel The control panel combines a touch panel with a speaker by which a clinician can enter and confirm configuration and see and hear alarms and warnings. is used by an authorized clinician to start and stop infusion displays the prescription read from the drug container by the scanner for confirmation or rejection. displays the PCA pump's status. allows request of a bolus by a clinician. allows entry of the clinician requested bolus duration displays alarm and warning indications sounds alerts for alarm and warning indications allows alarm inactivation displays if and how alarms are currently inactivated^^1
halt pumping. The mechanical pump shall halt pumping when commanded  or caused in response to an alarm condition (at end of pump stoke?)^^Safety Subsystem: Failure LED Hardware faults that prevent execution of thread cause the failure LED to illuminate.^^0
pump case. The PCA pump case must be at least difficult to breech as its tamper-resistant door. Breaking the case shall not be easier to access the drug reservoir than breeching the door.^^Operational Subsystem: Scanner The scanner reads an optical or RFID code on the patient  clinician  and the drug container that is loaded into the reservoir.^^0
measure drug flow. The PCA pump shall measure drug flow within a tolerance of Fmdf tol = 0.1 ml/hr.^^Fluid Subsystem: Upstream Monitor The upstream monitor measures drug flow into the pump and detects upstream occlusion.^^1
halt pumping. The mechanical pump shall halt pumping when commanded  or caused in response to an alarm condition (at end of pump stoke?)^^Operation Subsystem: Operation Thread The operation thread performs primary pump operation control.^^1
clinician's badge. The scanner shall read and authenticate information from the clinician's badge.^^Safety Subsystem: Alarm Thread The alarm thread (within the alarm process) evaluates fault signals to determine whether the infusion rate should be changed  issues alarm and warning signals to be sounded and displayed by the control panel  and creates fault entries to be stored in the fault log.^^0
