The subscribermanager shall report results indicating whether the speculative change negatively impacts other requirements and constraints.^^Test case: Subscriber fails to register with subscriber manager (2.1.3)(2.2.2)(3.2.2?) Preconditions The subscriber is a valid subscriber Steps The subscriber attempts to exit from the registration process without registering itself under a subscriber manager. Postconditions The subscriber is removed from the system.^^0
The notification processing system shall automatically eliminate any events that are not longer valid as a result of the user eliminating temporary traces.^^Test case: User processes an event message (6.2)(6.3)(6.4) Preconditions: Event messages are displayed for a single artifact. Steps: The user examines the first event message. The user applies any information from the event message to update the artifact accordingly. The user selects which of the tentative links should be made permanent and which ones should be discarded. Postconditions: The links in the event server are changed according to the users directions. Any additional event messages that had previously been sent on the basis of a tentative link, and for which the tentative link has now been eliminated, are removed from the event processing list and display.^^1
The subscribermanager shall store information for evolutionary events in an eventlog.^^Test case: Subscriber manager receives non-speculative event notification (3.2.1)(3.2.3)(3.3.1) Preconditions: The subscriber manager has registered subscribers Steps An event notification is sent to the subscriber manager for a registered subscriber. The relevant subscriber manager receives the event notification. Postconditions: The event notification message is stored in the local event log.^^1
On receipt of an event; the eventserver shall identify all relevant subscribers for the event.^^Test case: Establish Trace  (2.1.1)(2.2.1) Preconditions Subscriber is registered Steps Subscriber establishes a trace between a UML artifact and a requirement. Postconditions A trace is established between the UML artifact and the requirement.^^0
Non-requirement artifacts shall be managed in 3rd party tools such as Rational Rose or Clear case^^Test case: Notify subscribers when an evolutionary event occurs  (5.5) Preconditions: The event server has received an evolutionary event message. The event server has identified a list of subscribers. Steps: The event server identifies the subscriber manager for each subscriber. The event server identifies the IP address and port for each relevant subscriber manager. The event server builds a notification event message and sends it to each relevant subscriber manager. Postconditions: The event message is received by each relevant subscriber manager or behalf of its managed subscribers.^^0
A subscribermanager shall manage traces for one or more artifacts.^^Test case: Subscriber registers with subscriber manager (2.1.3)(2.2.2)(3.2.2?)(2.1.2?) Preconditions The subscriber is a valid subscriber At least one valid subscriber manager is in the system Steps The subscriber registers itself with the subscriber manager. Postconditions The subscriber is registered under the subscriber manager.^^1
Only registered subscribers shall be allowed to establish traces.^^Test case: Events are displayed in the order in which they are received.(6.1) Preconditions: At least three event messages received for a single artifact. Steps: The user activates the notification process tool. The user selects the artifact. Event messages are displayed in the order in which they were received. Postconditions: none^^0
On receipt of an event message the eventserver shall record the event in an eventlog.^^Test case: Non-registered subscriber attempts to establish a trace (2.1.1) Preconditions The proposed Subscriber is not registered Steps Subscriber attempts to establish a trace between a UML artifact and a requirement. Postconditions No trace is established between the UML artifact and the requirement.^^0
A subscribermanager shall receive event notifications on behalf of the artifacts that it manages.^^Test case: Establish Trace  (2.1.1)(2.2.1) Preconditions Subscriber is registered Steps Subscriber establishes a trace between a UML artifact and a requirement. Postconditions A trace is established between the UML artifact and the requirement.^^0
The eventserver shall differentiate between evolutionary and speculative events.^^Test case: Event server receives message (5.1)(5.2)(5.4) Preconditions: The event server is running and waiting for incoming events at a well known port and IP address. The event trigger issues an event message. Steps The event server receives an event message. The event server parses the event message into its constituent parts. The event server categorizes each event according to whether it is speculative or evolutionary. The event server stores event details in its event log. Post conditions: The event is stored in the log. The event is categorized according to whether it is evolutionary or speculative.^^1
